The Amur Leopard

The Amur Leopard is a critically endangered big cat species. Named after the Amur river, it is found in temperate forests in east Russia and northeast China, where it preys on deer and small mammals using camouflage to stalk and ambush its targets.

Also known as the Far Eastern Leopard, they sport a golden orange colour with black spots and rosettes. Being the most northern species of leopard, they have acclimated to the colder weather evolving to have longer and thicker fur than their more southern cousins. This leopard has similar sizing as other subspecies, found to be between 90-135cm in length, 60-75cm in height, and weighing between 32-48kgs.

The Amur Leopard is thought to have fewer than 100 individuals remaining outside of captivity due to habitat loss caused by human expansion. In addition to this, they are targets of poaching, their fur being a highly valuable in the international black market while their bones are prized ingredients in traditional medicine. Having been forced out of their natural habitat, the leopard has come into increased contact with humans causing conflicts that often end in the death of the animal.

The Amur Leopard has become a symbol of conservation in the Amur-Heilong region, being an animal of significance to the indigenous people. Representing strength and beauty it is often referenced in folklore and traditional art and literature. It shows the need to protect the regional ecosystem, as without the top predator the herbivore population would explode resulting in too many individuals for the ecosystem to sustain leading to overgrazing and starvation.

Thankfully conservation efforts are being made to restore the leopard habitat and raise awareness of their plight. Additionally, within the Amur-Heilong region multiple protected areas have been created to prevent continued habitat loss and human conflict. This is paired with the patrolling of law enforcement agencies in these protected areas, as well as established black market trade routes, as a means to prevent poaching.
